add cpp version for urdf_tutorial (#4926)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/Tutorials/Intermediate/URDF/Using-URDF-with-Robot-State-Publisher-cpp.rst

.. Redirect-from::

>     Tutorials/URDF/Using-URDF-with-Robot-State-Publisher

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be:

```suggestion
    Tutorials/Intermediate/URDF/Using-URDF-with-Robot-State-Publisher
```

And do we actually want the original Python tutorial link to now redirect to the new C++ tutorial? Or should this be added to the original Python tutorial instead?

.. _URDFPlusRSP:

Using URDF with ``robot_state_publisher``
=========================================

**Goal:** Simulate a walking robot modeled in URDF and view it in Rviz.

**Tutorial level:** Intermediate

**Time:** 15 minutes

.. contents:: Contents
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Background
----------

This tutorial will show you how to model a walking robot, publish the state as a tf2 message and view the simulation in Rviz.
First, we create the URDF model describing the robot assembly.
Next we write a node which simulates the motion and publishes the JointState and transforms.
We then use ``robot_state_publisher`` to publish the entire robot state to ``/tf2``.

.. image:: images/r2d2_rviz_demo.gif

Prerequisites
-------------

- `rviz2 <https://index.ros.org/p/rviz2/>`__

As always, don’t forget to source ROS 2 in :doc:`every new terminal you open <../../Beginner-CLI-Tools/Configuring-ROS2-Environment>`.

Tasks
-----

1 Create a package
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> go to your ros2 workplace and then create the package:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go to your ROS 2 workplace and create a package names `urdf_tutorial_cpp`:
```

It is always stylized "ROS 2".

.. code-block:: console

    cd src
    ros2 pkg create --build-type ament_python --license Apache-2.0 urdf_tutorial_cpp --dependencies rclpy
    cd urdf_tutorial_cpp

You should now see a ``urdf_tutorial_cpp`` folder.
Next you will make several changes to it.

2 Create the URDF File
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Create the directory where we will store some assets:

.. tabs::

  .. group-tab:: Linux

    .. code-block:: console

      mkdir -p urdf

  .. group-tab:: macOS

    .. code-block:: console

      mkdir -p urdf

  .. group-tab:: Windows

    .. code-block:: console

      md urdf

Download the :download:`URDF file <documents/r2d2.urdf.xml>` and save it as ``urdf_tutorial_cpp/urdf/r2d2.urdf.xml``.
Download the :download:`Rviz configuration file <documents/r2d2.rviz>` and save it as ``urdf_tutorial_cpp/urdf/r2d2.rviz``.

3 Publish the state
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now we need a method for specifying what state the robot is in.

> To do this, we must specify all three joints and the overall odometry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do this, we must specify all three joints and the overall robot geometry.
```

I think this is what you mean.

Fire up your favorite editor and paste the following code into ``urdf_tutorial_cpp/src/urdf_tutorial.cpp``

> .. code-block:: cpp

Reviewer 2: This section is good but I would really like to see the code commented in excruciating detail. Telling the user what to do is good, but telling them why they should do it is better. 

A good rule of thumb is that every time there is a whitespace break you should include a comment.

      rclcpp::spin(std::make_shared<StatePublisher>());
      rclcpp::shutdown();
      return 0;
  }

4 Create a launch file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Create a new ``urdf_tutorial_cpp/launch`` folder.
Open your editor and paste the following code, saving it as ``urdf_tutorial_cpp/launch/launch.py``

.. code-block:: python
  
  import os
  from ament_index_python.packages import get_package_share_directory
  from launch import LaunchDescription
  from launch.actions import DeclareLaunchArgument
  from launch.substitutions import LaunchConfiguration
  from launch_ros.actions import Node
  
  def generate_launch_description():
  
      use_sim_time = LaunchConfiguration('use_sim_time', default='false')
  
      urdf_file_name = 'r2d2.urdf.xml'
  
      urdf=os.path.join(
          get_package_share_directory('urdf_tutorial_cpp'),
          'urdf',
          urdf_file_name
      )
  
      with open(urdf, 'r') as infp:
          robot_desc = infp.read()
  
          return LaunchDescription([
          DeclareLaunchArgument(
              'use_sim_time',
              default_value='false',
              description='Use simulation (Gazebo) clock if true'),

>           Node(

Reviewer 2: See my comment in the C++ code. I would recommend commenting on the non-obvious parameters like use_sim_time.

              package='robot_state_publisher',
              executable='robot_state_publisher',
              name='robot_state_publisher',
              output='screen',
              parameters=[{'use_sim_time': use_sim_time, 'robot_description': robot_desc}],
              arguments=[urdf]),
          Node(
              package='urdf_tutorial_cpp',
              executable='urdf_tutorial_cpp',
              name='urdf_tutorial_cpp',
              output='screen'),
      ])
  

5 Edit the CMakeLists.txt file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> You must tell the **colcon** build tool how to install your cpp package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to build our example we must tell the **colcon** build tool how to install our C++ package.
```

Reviewer 2: I would follow this first sentence up with specifically calling out the lines you have to add to make this work, in this case, call out that you are adding the install commands.

Edit the ``CMakeLists.txt`` file as follows:

.. code-block:: python

  cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.8)
  project(urdf_tutorial_cpp)
  
  if(CMAKE_COMPILER_IS_GNUCXX OR CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_ID MATCHES "Clang")
    add_compile_options(-Wall -Wextra -Wpedantic)
  endif()
  
  # find dependencies
  find_package(ament_cmake REQUIRED)
  find_package(geometry_msgs REQUIRED)
  find_package(sensor_msgs REQUIRED)
  find_package(tf2_ros REQUIRED)
  find_package(tf2_geometry_msgs REQUIRED)
  find_package(rclcpp REQUIRED)
  
  add_executable(urdf_tutorial_cpp src/urdf_tutorial.cpp)
  
  ament_target_dependencies(urdf_tutorial_cpp
    geometry_msgs
    sensor_msgs
    tf2_ros
    tf2_geometry_msgs
    rclcpp
  )
  
  install(TARGETS
    urdf_tutorial_cpp
    DESTINATION lib/${PROJECT_NAME}
  )
  
  install(DIRECTORY
    launch
    DESTINATION share/${PROJECT_NAME}
  )
  
  install(DIRECTORY
    urdf
    DESTINATION share/${PROJECT_NAME}
  )
  

>   # uncomment the following section in order to fill in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>   # further dependencies manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>   # find_package(<dependency> REQUIRED)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

  
  if(BUILD_TESTING)
    find_package(ament_lint_auto REQUIRED)

>     # the following line skips the linter which checks for copyrights

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this boiler plate.

    # comment the line when a copyright and license is added to all source files
    set(ament_cmake_copyright_FOUND TRUE)

>     # the following line skips cpplint (only works in a git repo)

Reviewer 2: I would remove this boiler plate.

Author: So, what's these code means? I always see them when I create a package by command.

    # comment the line when this package is in a git repo and when
    # a copyright and license is added to all source files
    set(ament_cmake_cpplint_FOUND TRUE)
    ament_lint_auto_find_test_dependencies()
  endif()
  
  ament_package()

we use ''install'' command to put the r2d2.rviz into ''install'' dir

6 Install the package
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> go back to your workplace root dir and run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Return to your workspace root dir and run:
```

.. code-block:: console

    colcon build --symlink-install --packages-select urdf_tutorial_cpp

Source the setup files:

.. tabs::

  .. group-tab:: Linux

    .. code-block:: console

      source install/setup.bash

  .. group-tab:: macOS

    .. code-block:: console

      source install/setup.bash

  .. group-tab:: Windows

    .. code-block:: console

      call install/setup.bat

7 View the results
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Launch the package

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To launch your new package run the following command:
```

.. code-block:: console

  ros2 launch urdf_tutorial_cpp launch.py

> Open a new terminal, the run Rviz using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To visualize your results you will need to open a new terminal and run Rviz using your rviz configuration file. 
```

.. code-block:: console

  rviz2 -d install/urdf_tutorial_cpp/share/urdf_tutorial_cpp/urdf/r2d2.rviz

> See the `User Guide <http://wiki.ros.org/rviz/UserGuide>`__ for details on how to use Rviz.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the `User Guide <../../Tutorials/Intermediate/RViz/RViz-User-Guide/RViz-User-Guide.html>`__ for details on how to use Rviz.
```
Please don't point to the ROS 1 documentation. You should point to the correct ROS 2 documentation instead. I think that's the right path but you'll need to double check it.

''install/urdf_tutorial_cpp/share/urdf_tutorial_cpp/urdf/r2d2.rviz'' is the dir where the r2d2.rviz stored.

Summary
-------

> You created a ``JointState`` publisher node and coupled it with ``robot_state_publisher`` to simulate a walking robot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You  have created a ``JointState`` publisher node and coupled it with ``robot_state_publisher`` to simulate a walking robot.
```

> The code used in these examples is originally from `here <https://github.com/benbongalon/ros2-migration/tree/master/urdf_tutorial>`__.

Reviewer 2: @fujitatomoya how should we handle the copyright on this kind of stuff?

Reviewer 3: I am not sure, copyright should belong to the original author... usually examples we have in documentation are from https://github.com/ros2/demos or https://github.com/ros2/examples maintained somewhere ros2 organization. but i can see some community managed or individual repositories in the documentation too.

CC: @mjcarroll @christophebedard

Reviewer: Do we need to worry about that here? This line is from the original Python tutorial: https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Tutorials/Intermediate/URDF/Using-URDF-with-Robot-State-Publisher.html#summary

So the C++ code in this tutorial is new (i.e., not taken from any repo), right? And we typically don't have any copyright statement in code in the docs.

Credit is given to the authors of this

> `ROS 1 tutorial <http://wiki.ros.org/urdf/Tutorials/Using%20urdf%20with%20robot_state_publisher>`__

Reviewer 2: I don't know if we need these lines.

Author: Actually, I just copy these form python version. So I tend to delete them. QWQ

> Congratulations! You  have created a ``JointState`` publisher node and coupled it with ``robot_state_publisher`` to simulate a walking robot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations!
You have created a ``JointState`` publisher node and coupled it with ``robot_state_publisher`` to simulate a walking robot.
```

Tasks
-----

1 Create a package
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Go to your ROS 2 workplace and create a package names ``urdf_tutorial_cpp``:

.. code-block:: console

    cd src
    ros2 pkg create --build-type ament_python --license Apache-2.0 urdf_tutorial_cpp --dependencies rclpy
    cd urdf_tutorial_cpp

You should now see a ``urdf_tutorial_cpp`` folder.
Next you will make several changes to it.

2 Create the URDF File
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Create the directory where we will store some assets:

.. tabs::

  .. group-tab:: Linux

    .. code-block:: console

      mkdir -p urdf

  .. group-tab:: macOS

    .. code-block:: console

      mkdir -p urdf

  .. group-tab:: Windows

    .. code-block:: console

      md urdf

Download the :download:`URDF file <documents/r2d2.urdf.xml>` and save it as `urdf_tutorial_cpp/urdf/r2d2.urdf.xml`.
Download the :download:`Rviz configuration file <documents/r2d2.rviz>` and save it as `urdf_tutorial_cpp/urdf/r2d2.rviz`.

3 Publish the state
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now we need a method for specifying what state the robot is in.

To do this, we must specify all three joints and the overall robot geometry.

> Fire up your favorite editor and paste the following code into 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fire up your favorite editor and paste the following code into
```

``urdf_tutorial_cpp/src/urdf_tutorial.cpp``

.. code-block:: cpp

  #include <rclcpp/rclcpp.hpp>
  #include <geometry_msgs/msg/quaternion.hpp>
  #include <sensor_msgs/msg/joint_state.hpp>
  #include <tf2_ros/transform_broadcaster.h>
  #include <tf2_geometry_msgs/tf2_geometry_msgs.hpp>
  #include <cmath>
  #include <thread>
  #include <chrono>

>   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

  using namespace std::chrono;

>   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

  class StatePublisher : public rclcpp::Node{
      public:

>       

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

      StatePublisher(rclcpp::NodeOptions options=rclcpp::NodeOptions()):
          Node("state_publisher",options){
              joint_pub_ = this->create_publisher<sensor_msgs::msg::JointState>("joint_states",10);
              // create a publisher to tell robot_state_publisher the JointState information.
              // robot_state_publisher will deal with this transformation
              broadcaster = std::make_shared<tf2_ros::TransformBroadcaster>(this);
              // create a broadcaster to tell the tf2 state information
              // this broadcaster will determine the position of coordinate system 'asix' in coordinate system 'odom'
              RCLCPP_INFO(this->get_logger(),"Starting state publisher");

>   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

              loop_rate_=std::make_shared<rclcpp::Rate>(33ms);

>   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

              timer_=this->create_wall_timer(33ms,std::bind(&StatePublisher::publish,this));
          }
  
          void publish();
      private:
      rclcpp::Publisher<sensor_msgs::msg::JointState>::SharedPtr joint_pub_;
      std::shared_ptr<tf2_ros::TransformBroadcaster> broadcaster;
      rclcpp::Rate::SharedPtr loop_rate_;
      rclcpp::TimerBase::SharedPtr timer_;
  
      //Robot state variables

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

      // degree means one degree
      const double degree=M_PI/180.0;
      double tilt = 0.;
      double tinc = degree;
      double swivel = 0.;
      double angle = 0.;
      double height = 0.;
      double hinc = 0.005;
  };
  
  void StatePublisher::publish(){

>       // create msg subject

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      // create the necessary messages
```

      t.child_frame_id="axis";

      // add translation change
      t.transform.translation.x=cos(angle)*2;
      t.transform.translation.y=sin(angle)*2;
      t.transform.translation.z=0.7;
      tf2::Quaternion q;
      // ture euler angle into Quanternion and add rotation change
      q.setRPY(0,0,angle+M_PI/2);
      t.transform.rotation.x=q.x();
      t.transform.rotation.y=q.y();
      t.transform.rotation.z=q.z();
      t.transform.rotation.w=q.w();

      // update state for next time
      tilt+=tinc;
      if (tilt<-0.5 || tilt>0.0){
          tinc*=-1;
      }
      height+=hinc;
      if (height>0.2 || height<0.0){
          hinc*=-1;
      }
      swivel+=degree;  // Increment by 1 degree (in radians)
      angle+=degree;    // Change angle at a slower pace
  
      // send message
      broadcaster->sendTransform(t);
      joint_pub_->publish(joint_state);
  
      RCLCPP_INFO(this->get_logger(),"Publishing joint state");
  }
  
  int main(int argc, char * argv[]){
      rclcpp::init(argc,argv);
      rclcpp::spin(std::make_shared<StatePublisher>());
      rclcpp::shutdown();
      return 0;
  }

> This file will send the ``joint_state`` to ``robot_state_publisher`` and ``robot_state_publisher`` will tell tf2 how to place model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This file will send ``joint_state`` values  to ``robot_state_publisher`` which in turn will tell tf2 how to place model.
```

> This file will also tell ``tf2`` how to place the whole model by ``broadcaster``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The code file will also tell ``tf2`` how to place the whole model using the  ``transform_broadcaster``
```

5 Edit the CMakeLists.txt file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You must tell the **colcon** build tool how to install your cpp package.
Edit the ``CMakeLists.txt`` file as follows:

.. code-block:: python

  cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.8)
  project(urdf_tutorial_cpp)

  if(CMAKE_COMPILER_IS_GNUCXX OR CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_ID MATCHES "Clang")
    add_compile_options(-Wall -Wextra -Wpedantic)
  endif()

  # find dependencies
  find_package(ament_cmake REQUIRED)
  find_package(geometry_msgs REQUIRED)
  find_package(sensor_msgs REQUIRED)
  find_package(tf2_ros REQUIRED)
  find_package(tf2_geometry_msgs REQUIRED)
  find_package(rclcpp REQUIRED)

  add_executable(urdf_tutorial_cpp src/urdf_tutorial.cpp)

  ament_target_dependencies(urdf_tutorial_cpp
    geometry_msgs
    sensor_msgs
    tf2_ros
    tf2_geometry_msgs
    rclcpp
  )

  install(TARGETS
    urdf_tutorial_cpp
    DESTINATION lib/${PROJECT_NAME}
  )

  install(DIRECTORY
    launch
    DESTINATION share/${PROJECT_NAME}
  )

  install(DIRECTORY
    urdf
    DESTINATION share/${PROJECT_NAME}
  )

  ament_package()

we use ``install`` command to put the r2d2.rviz into ``install`` dir

6 Install the package
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> To visualize the results you will need to open a new terminal and run RViz using your RViz configuration file. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To visualize the results you will need to open a new terminal and run RViz using your RViz configuration file.
```

> To visualize your results you will need to open a new terminal and run Rviz using your rviz configuration file. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To visualize the results you will need to open a new terminal and run RViz using your RViz configuration file. 
```

.. code-block:: console

    colcon build --symlink-install --packages-select urdf_tutorial_cpp

Source the setup files:

.. tabs::

  .. group-tab:: Linux

    .. code-block:: console

      source install/setup.bash

  .. group-tab:: macOS

    .. code-block:: console

      source install/setup.bash

  .. group-tab:: Windows

    .. code-block:: console

      call install/setup.bat

7 View the results
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To launch your new package run the following command:

.. code-block:: console

  ros2 launch urdf_tutorial_cpp launch.py

> To visualize your results you will need to open a new terminal and run Rviz using your rviz configuration file. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To visualize your results you will need to open a new terminal and run RViz using your RViz configuration file. 
```
